README.md, before:

# Opti Models
Repo for the easy-way models convertation.

## Content
1. [Install](#Install)
2. [Convertation](#Convertation)
    - [ONNX](#ONNX-Convertation)
    - [TensorRT](#Tensorrt-Convertation)
3. [Models](#Models)
4. [Benchmarks](#Benchmarks)
5. [Simple pipeline example](#Simple-pipeline-example)


## Install

0. Clone the repo:
```
git clone git@github.com:IlyaDobrynin/opti_models.git && cd opti_models
git checkout dev
```

1. Create a clean virtual environment 
```
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
```
2. Install dependencies
````
pip install --upgrade pip
pip install .
pip install nvidia-pyindex
pip install --upgrade nvidia-tensorrt
````

## Convertation
**CURRENTLY IN DEV MODE**

### ONNX Convertation
#### Predefined models
1. Run:
```
python opti_models/convertations/cvt_onnx.py --model-name BACKBONE_NAME
```

Parameters cheatsheet:

- `model-name` (str, required) - Name of the model.
- `model-type` (str, optional) - Type of the model. Default: `backbone`. Options:
  - `backbone` - simply backbone classification model
  - `classifier` - opti-models classification model
  - `custom` - your own torchvision models.    
- `model-path` (str, optional) - Path to the model. Default: `ImageNet` - model with imagenet pretrain.
- `batch-size` (int, optional) - Batch size for converted model. Default: `1`.
- `size` (int int int, optional) - Image size. Default: `224 224 3`.
- `num-classes` (int, optional) - Num classes in the head for backbone model.  Default: `1000`.
- `export-dir` (str, optional) - Directory to export onnx converted files. Default: `data/onnx-export`.

If you're converting your own model with custom `num-classes`, opti_models simply changes the last FC layer of the network,
so that the output dimention is equal to `num-classes`, instead of 1000 in the ImageNet pretraining. 

If you have a custom head (or the entire model) — check [ONNX Convertation — Custom Model](#onnx-convertation--custom-model)

By default, cvt_onnx.py will generate 2 outputs: regular .onnx file and a simplified version of it, obtained with ONNX simplifier.

**Examples:**
```
# Convert simple resnet with imagenet pretrain
python opti_models/convertations/cvt_onnx.py --model-name resnet18

# Convert you own ResNet18 torchvision model with batch size 1, 
# image size 224x224, num classes 1 and custom weights
python opti_models/convertations/cvt_onnx.py --model-name resnet18 --model-path CKPT-PATH --batch_size 1 --size 224 224 --num-classes 1
```


#### Entirely custom model

The script for convertation is `cvt_onxx.py`. In order to convert something entirely custom, you need to use python api and 
provide `model` argument to the `make_onnx_convertation` function.

**Example:**

````
from opti_models import make_onnx_convertation
model = MyModel(**my_model_parameters)
make_onnx_convertation(model=model, **other_parameters)
````
**Important**: It's not guaranteed for custom models to successfully convert to ONNX or TRT, since some operations 
simply are not supported by either ONNX or TRT.   


### TensorRT Convertation

1. Run:
```
python opti_models/convertations/cvt_tensorrt.py --onnx-path 
```

Parameters cheatsheet:

- `onnx-path` (str, required) - Path to the exported onnx model.
- `batch-size` (int, optional) - Batch size for converted model. Default: `1`.
- `precision` (str, optional) - Precision of the TRT engine, 32 (for FP32) or 16 (for FP16). Default: `32`.
- `export-dir` (str, optional) - Directory to export TRT engine . Default: `data/trt-export`.

**Example:**
```
# Convert previously converted ResNet18 ONNX model
python opti_models/convertations/cvt_tensorrt.py --onnx-path data/onnx_export/resnet18/resnet18_bs-1_res-224x224_simplified.onnx 
```

## Models
For list of all models see [MODELS.md](/opti_models/models/MODELS.md)

## Benchmarks

### Imagenet

### 1. Prepare data
For all imagenet benchmarks you need to prepare data:
1. Download data from [GoogleDrive](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Yi_SZ400LKMXeA08BvDip4qBJonaThae/view?usp=sharing)
2. Untar it to the `usr/local/opti_models`:
```
sudo mkdir -p /usr/local/opti_models 
sudo mv imagenetv2-topimages.tar /usr/local/opti_models/
sudo tar -xvf imagenetv2-topimages.tar
```

#### 2. Run imagenet Benchmark with pyTorch models
```
python opti_models/benchmarks/imagenet_torch_benchmark.py --model-name MODEL-NAME
```
Parameters cheatsheet:
- `model-name` (str, required) - name of the model to test.
- `path-to-images` (str, optional) - path to the validation set. Default - `/usr/local/opti_models/imagenetv2-top-images-format-val`.
- `size` (int int, optional) - Image size. Default: `224 224`.
- `batch-size` (int, optional) - Batch size for converted model. Default: `1`.
- `workers` (int, optional) - Number of the workers. Default: `1`

#### 2. Run imagenet Benchmark with TensorRT models
```
python opti_models/benchmarks/imagenet_tensorrt_benchmark.py --trt-path TRT-PATH
```
Parameters cheatsheet:
- `trt-path` (str, required) - path to the TensorRT model.
- `path-to-images` (str, required) - path to the validation set. Default - `/usr/local/opti_models/imagenetv2-top-images-format-val`.
- `size` (int int, optional) - Image size. Default: `224 224`.

## Simple pipeline example
#### Let's sum up simple end2end pipeline for convertations and benchmarking:
1. First let's run simple pytorch speed benchmark with resnet18: 
```
python opti_models/benchmarks/imagenet_torch_benchmark.py --model-name resnet18

Output:
INFO:root:      TORCH BENCHMARK FOR resnet18: START
100%|█████████████| 10000/10000 [01:28<00:00, 112.92it/s]
INFO:root:      Average fps: 213.2855109396426
INFO:root:      TOP 1 ACCURACY: 70.19   TOP 1 ERROR: 29.81
INFO:root:      TOP 5 ACCURACY: 90.49   TOP 5 ERROR: 9.51
INFO:root:      BENCHMARK FOR resnet18: SUCCESS
```
2. Then, convert this model to ONNX:
```
python opti_models/convertations/cvt_onnx.py --model-name resnet18

Output:
INFO:root:      Convert to ONNX: START
INFO:root:      Convert to ONNX: SUCCESS
INFO:root:      ONNX check: SUCCESS
INFO:root:      Convert to ONNX Simplified: START
INFO:root:      Convert to ONNX Simplified: SUCCESS
INFO:root:      Result validation: START
INFO:root:      Result validation: SUCCESS
INFO:root:      >>>>> Result dim = (1, 1000)
```
3. After that, try to convert ONNX model to TensorRT:
```
python opti_models/convertations/cvt_tensorrt.py --onnx-path data/onnx-export/resnet18/resnet18_bs-1_res-3x224x224_simplified.onnx

Output:
INFO:root:      Convert to TensorRT: START
INFO:root:      >>>>> TensorRT inference engine settings:
INFO:root:      >>>>>   * Inference precision - DataType.FLOAT
INFO:root:      >>>>>   * Max batch size - 1
INFO:root:      >>>>> ONNX file parsing: START
INFO:root:      >>>>> Num of network layers: 51
INFO:root:      >>>>> Building TensorRT engine. This may take a while...
INFO:root:      >>>>> TensorRT engine build: SUCCESS
INFO:root:      >>>>> Saving TensorRT engine
INFO:root:      >>>>> TensorRT engine save: SUCCESS
INFO:root:      Convert to TensorRT: SUCCESS
```
4. Last step - let's see the TRT model performance on the same data as in step 1:
```
python opti_models/benchmarks/imagenet_tensorrt_benchmark.py --trt-path data/trt-export/resnet18/resnet18_bs-1_res-224x224.engine

Output:
INFO:root:      TENSORRT BENCHMARK FOR resnet18: START
100%|█████████████| 10000/10000 [01:17<00:00, 129.49it/s]
INFO:root:      Average fps: 1005.4750549267463
INFO:root:      TOP 1 ACCURACY: 70.19   TOP 1 ERROR: 29.81
INFO:root:      TOP 5 ACCURACY: 90.49   TOP 5 ERROR: 9.51
INFO:root:      BENCHMARK FOR resnet18: SUCCESS
```

Commit message:

[add]: add content, citing and license link

README.md, after:

# Opti Models
Repo for the easy-way models convertation.

## Content
1. [Install](#Install)
2. [Convertation](#Convertation)
    - [ONNX](#ONNX-Convertation)
    - [TensorRT](#Tensorrt-Convertation)
3. [Models](#Models)
4. [Benchmarks](#Benchmarks)
5. [Simple pipeline example](#Simple-pipeline-example)
6. [Citing](#Citing)
7. [License](#License)

## Install
[Back to Content](#Content)

0. Clone the repo:
```
git clone git@github.com:IlyaDobrynin/opti_models.git && cd opti_models
git checkout dev
```

1. Create a clean virtual environment 
```
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
```
2. Install dependencies
````
pip install --upgrade pip
pip install .
pip install nvidia-pyindex
pip install --upgrade nvidia-tensorrt
````

## Convertation
[Back to Content](#Content)

### ONNX Convertation
[Back to Content](#Content)
#### Predefined models
1. Run:
```
python opti_models/convertations/cvt_onnx.py --model-name BACKBONE_NAME
```

Parameters cheatsheet:

- `model-name` (str, required) - Name of the model.
- `model-type` (str, optional) - Type of the model. Default: `backbone`. Options:
  - `backbone` - simply backbone classification model
  - `classifier` - opti-models classification model
  - `custom` - your own torchvision models.    
- `model-path` (str, optional) - Path to the model. Default: `ImageNet` - model with imagenet pretrain.
- `batch-size` (int, optional) - Batch size for converted model. Default: `1`.
- `size` (int int int, optional) - Image size. Default: `224 224 3`.
- `num-classes` (int, optional) - Num classes in the head for backbone model.  Default: `1000`.
- `export-dir` (str, optional) - Directory to export onnx converted files. Default: `data/onnx-export`.

If you're converting your own model with custom `num-classes`, opti_models simply changes the last FC layer of the network,
so that the output dimention is equal to `num-classes`, instead of 1000 in the ImageNet pretraining. 

If you have a custom head (or the entire model) — check [ONNX Convertation — Custom Model](#onnx-convertation--custom-model)

By default, cvt_onnx.py will generate 2 outputs: regular .onnx file and a simplified version of it, obtained with ONNX simplifier.

**Examples:**
```
# Convert simple resnet with imagenet pretrain
python opti_models/convertations/cvt_onnx.py --model-name resnet18

# Convert you own ResNet18 torchvision model with batch size 1, 
# image size 224x224, num classes 1 and custom weights
python opti_models/convertations/cvt_onnx.py --model-name resnet18 --model-path CKPT-PATH --batch_size 1 --size 224 224 --num-classes 1
```

#### Entirely custom model

The script for convertation is `cvt_onxx.py`. In order to convert something entirely custom, you need to use python api and 
provide `model` argument to the `make_onnx_convertation` function.

**Example:**

````
from opti_models import make_onnx_convertation
model = MyModel(**my_model_parameters)
make_onnx_convertation(model=model, **other_parameters)
````
**Important**: It's not guaranteed for custom models to successfully convert to ONNX or TRT, since some operations 
simply are not supported by either ONNX or TRT.   


### TensorRT Convertation
[Back to Content](#Content)
1. Run:
```
python opti_models/convertations/cvt_tensorrt.py --onnx-path 
```

Parameters cheatsheet:

- `onnx-path` (str, required) - Path to the exported onnx model.
- `batch-size` (int, optional) - Batch size for converted model. Default: `1`.
- `precision` (str, optional) - Precision of the TRT engine, 32 (for FP32) or 16 (for FP16). Default: `32`.
- `export-dir` (str, optional) - Directory to export TRT engine . Default: `data/trt-export`.

**Example:**
```
# Convert previously converted ResNet18 ONNX model
python opti_models/convertations/cvt_tensorrt.py --onnx-path data/onnx_export/resnet18/resnet18_bs-1_res-224x224_simplified.onnx 
```

## Models
[Back to Content](#Content)

For list of all models see [MODELS.md](/opti_models/models/MODELS.md)

## Benchmarks
[Back to Content](#Content)
### Imagenet
### 1. Prepare data
For all imagenet benchmarks you need to prepare data:
1. Download data from [GoogleDrive](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Yi_SZ400LKMXeA08BvDip4qBJonaThae/view?usp=sharing)
2. Untar it to the `usr/local/opti_models`:
```
sudo mkdir -p /usr/local/opti_models 
sudo mv imagenetv2-topimages.tar /usr/local/opti_models/
sudo tar -xvf imagenetv2-topimages.tar
```

### 2. Run imagenet Benchmark with pyTorch models
```
python opti_models/benchmarks/imagenet_torch_benchmark.py --model-name MODEL-NAME
```
Parameters cheatsheet:
- `model-name` (str, required) - name of the model to test.
- `path-to-images` (str, optional) - path to the validation set. Default - `/usr/local/opti_models/imagenetv2-top-images-format-val`.
- `size` (int int, optional) - Image size. Default: `224 224`.
- `batch-size` (int, optional) - Batch size for converted model. Default: `1`.
- `workers` (int, optional) - Number of the workers. Default: `1`

### 3. Run imagenet Benchmark with TensorRT models
```
python opti_models/benchmarks/imagenet_tensorrt_benchmark.py --trt-path TRT-PATH
```
Parameters cheatsheet:
- `trt-path` (str, required) - path to the TensorRT model.
- `path-to-images` (str, required) - path to the validation set. Default - `/usr/local/opti_models/imagenetv2-top-images-format-val`.
- `size` (int int, optional) - Image size. Default: `224 224`.

## Simple pipeline example
[Back to Content](#Content)
#### Let's sum up simple end2end pipeline for convertations and benchmarking:
1. First let's run simple pytorch speed benchmark with resnet18: 
```
python opti_models/benchmarks/imagenet_torch_benchmark.py --model-name resnet18

Output:
INFO:root:      TORCH BENCHMARK FOR resnet18: START
100%|█████████████| 10000/10000 [01:28<00:00, 112.92it/s]
INFO:root:      Average fps: 213.2855109396426
INFO:root:      TOP 1 ACCURACY: 70.19   TOP 1 ERROR: 29.81
INFO:root:      TOP 5 ACCURACY: 90.49   TOP 5 ERROR: 9.51
INFO:root:      BENCHMARK FOR resnet18: SUCCESS
```
2. Then, convert this model to ONNX:
```
python opti_models/convertations/cvt_onnx.py --model-name resnet18

Output:
INFO:root:      Convert to ONNX: START
INFO:root:      Convert to ONNX: SUCCESS
INFO:root:      ONNX check: SUCCESS
INFO:root:      Convert to ONNX Simplified: START
INFO:root:      Convert to ONNX Simplified: SUCCESS
INFO:root:      Result validation: START
INFO:root:      Result validation: SUCCESS
INFO:root:      >>>>> Result dim = (1, 1000)
```
3. After that, try to convert ONNX model to TensorRT:
```
python opti_models/convertations/cvt_tensorrt.py --onnx-path data/onnx-export/resnet18/resnet18_bs-1_res-3x224x224_simplified.onnx

Output:
INFO:root:      Convert to TensorRT: START
INFO:root:      >>>>> TensorRT inference engine settings:
INFO:root:      >>>>>   * Inference precision - DataType.FLOAT
INFO:root:      >>>>>   * Max batch size - 1
INFO:root:      >>>>> ONNX file parsing: START
INFO:root:      >>>>> Num of network layers: 51
INFO:root:      >>>>> Building TensorRT engine. This may take a while...
INFO:root:      >>>>> TensorRT engine build: SUCCESS
INFO:root:      >>>>> Saving TensorRT engine
INFO:root:      >>>>> TensorRT engine save: SUCCESS
INFO:root:      Convert to TensorRT: SUCCESS
```
4. Last step - let's see the TRT model performance on the same data as in step 1:
```
python opti_models/benchmarks/imagenet_tensorrt_benchmark.py --trt-path data/trt-export/resnet18/resnet18_bs-1_res-224x224.engine

Output:
INFO:root:      TENSORRT BENCHMARK FOR resnet18: START
100%|█████████████| 10000/10000 [01:17<00:00, 129.49it/s]
INFO:root:      Average fps: 1005.4750549267463
INFO:root:      TOP 1 ACCURACY: 70.19   TOP 1 ERROR: 29.81
INFO:root:      TOP 5 ACCURACY: 90.49   TOP 5 ERROR: 9.51
INFO:root:      BENCHMARK FOR resnet18: SUCCESS
```

## Citing
[Back to Content](#Content)
```
@misc{Dobrynin:2021,
  Author = {Dobrynin, Ilya and Panshin, Ivan},
  Title = {Opti Models: Easy-Way Models Convertations},
  Year = {2021},
  Publisher = {GitHub},
  Journal = {GitHub repository},
  Howpublished = {\url{https://github.com/IlyaDobrynin/opti_models}}
}
```
## License
[Back to Content](#Content)

Project is distributed under [MIT License](LICENSE)
